[pensive music]
[Mene] Mirana.
[echoing]
Do not be afraid.
I am night.
I am shadow.
And you are not alone.
[rhythmic pensive music]
You were never alone.
[theme music]
[intense music]
[groans]
It doesn't look like you took a hit.
No, no. It's-- It's not that.
There's no wound.
[Davion/Slyrak] Gods, I can feel them.
The souls.
All of them.
The dragons.
The Thunder.
They're all dead.
[suspenseful music]
[screaming]
[groaning]
[intense music]
[panting]
It's only me now.
The last dragon.
Last dragon?
I'd say we are the last anything.
Maybe we don't have to be.
The Pillars of Creation. The Forge.
Wait, wait. What? No.
Blowing up what's left of the universe?
That is your plan?
Restoration requires destruction…
[Davion/Slyrak] …little mouse.
[Mirana] Oh, I knew this place once.
It felt safe, like it was the safest place
in the universe.
And nothing could harm me.
That was a different universe.
That was a different Goddess.
Selemene.
-She wasn't who I thought.
-She was troubled.
Burdened in ways
that are difficult to explain.
-You remember her.
-As I remember you.
As I remember Davion…
and mourn him with you.
[gasps]
Fymryn.
He destroyed everything.
Not everyone. Not everything.
[sniffs]
I wanna find him. Kill him!
[Mene] Mirana, no.
It is the least he deserves.
His blood for all the rest.
I wanted blood once. I wanted your blood.
You suffered for my rage.
[Mene] So many suffered for my rage.
And what did anyone gain?
Death.
Emptiness.
-This.
-[Mirana] It's not fair.
-What isn't?
-All of it.
[sobs]
Everything he's taken. None of it's fair.
It is so terribly unfair.
But the world wasn't made to be fair.
It was made for us
to find each other in the dark
and offer comfort
while the nightmares pass.
This nightmare he made will never pass.
I'm trapped in his nightmare.
I know it seems so.
The Invoker knows everything
that can be known.
Except one thing with power beyond us…
and beyond him.
My father failed a thousand times
to succeed even once.
There's a chance I never will.
There is a chance.
But is it better than this?
Is it better than nothing at all?
No.
No, it isn't.
I must prepare.
As should you.
[Invoker] Filomena.
[Filomena] Papa.
Where is she? Where is Mirana?
Answer me, you bastard!
No.
[screams]
[all grunt]
Lina is gone. Mirana now.
What has he done with her?
Where the hell is she?
[somber music]
[Luna] The sun always rises.
I wish I had your faith.
[Davion] Follow me.
Follow you? This place is a maze.
I know the way out. I've been here before.
[panting]
You were wise to send them away.
[Filomena] I won't let you harm
those people.
I have no reason to harm them.
The valley, this tower, they are for you.
They were always for you.
You hate me, but you will live.
That's it, then?
No. No! You don't get to play my victim.
Victim?
And coward.
[Filomena] You can't even look at me.
Look at me.
[sobs]
I made a choice you couldn't live with.
[Invoker] A child's choice.
My choice. You took it from me.
Now you've taken another.
[Invoker] I facilitated the inevitable.
Mene's light! Do you hear yourself?
You "facilitated the inevitable,"
as though the world were a sick animal
to be put out of her misery.
I see you now.
You are so afraid of being wrong,
you won't even try to do what's right.
[gasps]
[Invoker] I will not allow this madness
to consume you as it has consumed me.
One final sacrifice ensures it.
The Archronicus.
Without it, you cannot conjure the Forge.
I memorized it. I don't need it.
[Invoker] You memorized words.
Concepts, ideas with names,
no different from any name.
No different from my name,
now forgotten and unknowable.
It is all simply information.
Once expunged, gone forever.
You wouldn't. Recovering that knowledge,
recreating it, it would take…
A lifetime, yes.
[panting]
-Remember Sturmwolke Tor?
-Yeah.
I try very hard not to.
Hang on to that.
Crazy. Stupid. Here we go.
Experiment 12,403 will be the last.
I don't want to fight you.
Please don't make me fight you.
But I can't let you destroy the book.
[Davion] Your daughter
doesn't want to fight you.
But personally?
I can't…
[Hybrion] …wait.
[Hybrion roars]
-[groans]
-[Invoker grunts]
[tense music]
-They're going to kill each other.
-That's not Davion's plan.
He's buying you time.
[Bram] I know
he seems impulsive, reckless,
like he doesn't appreciate
what's at stake, but he does.
It's just that he sees what we can't.
[Bram] He sees what has to be done.
How to win.
And he does it.
Davion fights.
He fights like hell.
Especially when the fight looks hopeless.
Understand…
even if I succeed…
the consequences for you, all of you…
I made the crossing
to Dragon Hold when I was 12.
I knew what that meant.
This is no different.
Never thought I'd live forever.
Never thought I'd be wished
out of existence either, but…
it's all the same, I suppose. On my terms.
And if my father is right?
If I'm just damning us all?
We look pretty damned already.
[Mirana] We're not damned.
[hopeful music]
Not quite.
Not yet.
Majesty.
We feared the worst. You…
[Luna] You were alone.
I was never alone.
Filomena.
[Mene] You know what you must do.
I know your father
better than anyone does.
Perhaps better than you.
Very little happens
if he does not wish it to happen.
[Mene] Very little happens
that he has not foreseen.
[explosion]
You can't trick him.
You can't outsmart him.
You can't pray you're faster.
[crackling]
If you try to beat him at this game,
his game,
you will lose.
[grunting]
[invoker] You have my daughter
to thank for your circumstances.
She helped me realize
the potential of the Forge.
I don't have to kill you
to take your power.
[screaming]
I hold your essence in my hand.
[intense music]
You have one weapon. You have one choice.
Your father loves you.
He thinks he can protect you.
He wanted to build
a perfect world for you,
because he doesn't see
there can be no such thing.
-[Mirana] Help him see the world as it is.
-[screaming]
Help him live in it, with it.
You love him. So tell him the truth.
[Mirana] And end this.
[screaming]
-[gasps]
-[grunts]
[explosions]
[whirring fades]
Goddess.
[Invoker] It doesn't matter
where you hide him, Goddess.
He is bound to the Forge wherever he goes.
I can claim him with a thought.
But you won't.
Papa, we have to end this.
Please.
[mellow music]
[groans]
[Davion grunts]
Sturmwolke Tor. You're insane.
You nearly died at Sturmwolke Tor.
That wasn't my best idea.
I'm just gonna lie here a minute
if it's okay with you.
Oh, yeah, sure. You want a pillow? A mint?
[exhales deeply]
-Fuck you.
-Hey, hey, hey, nurse that.
[gulping]
No idea where in the seven hells
we find more.
[gulping continues]
[Bram] No idea at all.
[somber music]
[Invoker] You would take their side.
[Filomena] No, Papa. Never.
I thought I was protecting you.
Protecting me?
It appeared some time ago,
without warning.
I searched for a cure, there is none.
The cantrip that grants our immortality
slows the rot, but does not dispel it.
I cannot tell you what it is,
I cannot tell you the cause.
I can only tell you that I'm weaker today
than I was yesterday.
Tomorrow, I will be weaker still.
[young Filomena] What--
What's wrong with me, Papa?
Am I all right?
No magic, no science
or Goddess can cure me.
A cure requires making me
other than who I was, who I still am.
This disease is a part of me.
We can't just wish it away.
I will die, Papa.
No one can change that.
Not even you can change that.
[Invoker] Filomena. I know.
I've always known.
I thought…
I hoped…
We… You…
might have just a little more time.
[sentimental music]
We're out of time.
[rumbling]
[sentimental music]
[whimpering]
[Filomena sobbing]
[explosions]
It's done.
[Davion] I'm guessing things went better
once I left.
They generally do.
What you did, it was--
A terrible plan?
Brave.
[Mirana] And very human.
When you were small,
you begged me for a dollhouse.
I failed to see the need,
but I could refuse you nothing.
[Invoker] So I conjured a structure
based on the Palace of Hurra'agdu.
It was accurate to the last detail.
I remember.
And I remember bursting into tears.
Happy tears, I believed.
[Invoker] Until you demanded
I send the house away.
I wanted a dollhouse as I imagined it,
not as you imagined it.
[Invoker] Yes.
So we commissioned the greatest artisan
of the Nightsilver Woods
to build a new one.
[Invoker] You sat with him,
watched him work.
You wanted to understand it so you could
fix the house should it ever break.
It's beautiful. I still have it.
[Filomena] Nothing is beyond repair.
Papa, I was thinking.
Perhaps there is another way.
A better way.
You are the Eye.
Literally the sun over our heads.
A constant in the universe,
linked to all stars,
linked to all universes.
[Filomena] You remember
what existed before,
and your divine spark connects you
to the Pillars of Creation.
The Eye carries innate knowledge
of things my father took
thousands of iterations to learn.
[Kashurra] Across 15 planes
and countless realities,
I found one constant.
The sun in the sky. The Worldwyrm.
You want me to restore
the reality I came from.
[Filomena] I don't want any of this.
But you can put it all back as it was,
as you knew it.
I know what I'm asking.
You're asking me to save what I love
by allowing what I've loved to die.
Luna, Marci, all of you.
I wish I knew how to say goodbye again.
Yet my confusion
is in some ways a blessing…
because it means I was privileged
to have you in my life.
I will not forget you.
I love you.
You are the best parts of me
in any universe.
-I'm ready when you are.
-I'm afraid there may be pain.
There always is.
[intense music]
Reach out with your mind.
Ignore the illusion of the physical world.
[Invoker] See the Pillars
as they truly are.
Draw them to you.
[mystic music]
Wait.
Mirana, no. It's okay, I'm okay.
I used to think my name
was the most important thing in the world.
Now I know it's how I'm remembered
that matters, and who remembers me.
Even if this works,
the last thing I'll see is you.
I'll watch you die
knowing I was the cause.
You're not the cause.
I can let you go, him go.
I don't know that I can kill you.
[Davion] This is my choice.
What I want.
[sucks teeth]
You know, most men would say the opposite.
I'm not most men.
Come here. Come to me on your own.
We'll do this together.
[Invoker] Now, think of the old world
as you remember it,
and let this world go.
[tranquil music]
[rumbling]
[Invoker] Let it go, Mirana.
Let it all go.
[grandiose music]
[wind whistling]
[rumbling]
[mellow music]
[Luna] Is that it, then?
I felt something happen.
And then it was like,
nothing happened at all.
Less than nothing.
[exhales heavily]
[Luna] You.
There's only one thing left.
Your head.
No.
No, death is better than you deserve.
Stay and rot. Hell suits you.
[Frymryn] He knows.
He knows better than any of us.
[Kaden] He-- He looks like his mother.
Give him to me. I'll carry him home.
[Sagan growls softly]
[melancholy music]
[Bram] He was my friend.
He was my brother.
[Bram sniffles]
I would pray for him…
but I don't think I need to.
The gods know his name.
[sobs]
[somber music]
In another life, you had a dream.
A new world.
A better world.
Let's build it, you and I.
Sun and moon, together.
[Mirana] Together.
[melancholy music]
Never again.
And you ask for nothing in return?
No one could steal the book from you.
No one would dare.
[Mirana] It is my gift to you.
A gift from a goddess is more than a gift.
It is divine favor.
-A favor?
-[shopkeeper] Your debt is satisfied.
[chuckles softly]
[shopkeeper] Tell me.
Did you find everything
you were looking for?
[mellow music]
[suspenseful music]
[sentimental music]
[Filomena] Do you love me?
[closing theme music]